<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>On Beauty</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="on-beauty" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<p>And a poet said, Speak to us of Beauty.</p>
			<p>And he answered:</p>
			<p>Where shall you seek beauty, and how shall you find her unless she herself be your way and your guide?</p>
			<p>And how shall you speak of her except she be the weaver of your speech?</p>
			<br/>
			<p>The aggrieved and the injured say, “Beauty is kind and gentle.</p>
			<p>Like a young mother half-shy of her own glory she walks among us.”</p>
			<p>And the passionate say, “Nay, beauty is a thing of might and dread.</p>
			<p>Like the tempest she shakes the earth beneath us and the sky above us.”</p>
			<br/>
			<p>The tired and the weary say, “Beauty is of soft whisperings. She speaks in our spirit.</p>
			<p>Her voice yields to our silences like a faint light that quivers in fear of the shadow.”</p>
			<p>But the restless say, “We have heard her shouting among the mountains,</p>
			<p>And with her cries came the sound of hoofs, and the beating of wings and the roaring of lions.”</p>
			<br/>
			<p>At night the watchmen of the city say, “Beauty shall rise with the dawn from the east.”</p>
			<p>And at noontide the toilers and the wayfarers say, “We have seen her leaning over the earth from the windows of the sunset.”</p>
			<br/>
			<p>In winter say the snow-bound, “She shall come with the spring leaping upon the hills.”</p>
			<p>And in the summer heat the reapers say, “We have seen her dancing with the autumn leaves, and we saw a drift of snow in her hair.”</p>
			<p>All these things have you said of beauty,</p>
			<p>Yet in truth you spoke not of her but of needs unsatisfied,</p>
			<p>And beauty is not a need but an ecstasy.</p>
			<p>It is not a mouth thirsting nor an empty hand stretched forth,</p>
			<p>But rather a heart enflamed and a soul enchanted.</p>
			<p>It is not the image you would see nor the song you would hear,</p>
			<p>But rather an image you see though you close your eyes and a song you hear though you shut your ears.</p>
			<p>It is not the sap within the furrowed bark, nor a wing attached to a claw,</p>
			<p>But rather a garden for ever in bloom and a flock of angels for ever in flight.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>People of Orphalese, beauty is life when life unveils her holy face.</p>
			<p>But you are life and you are the veil.</p>
			<p>Beauty is eternity gazing at itself in a mirror.</p>
			<p>But you are eternity and you are the mirror.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
