<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 13</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-13" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>Then one of the judges of the city stood forth and said, Speak to us of <b class="c7">Crime and Punishment</b>.</p>
			<p>And he answered, saying:</p>
			<p>It is when your spirit goes wandering upon the wind,</p>
			<p>That you, alone and unguarded, commit a wrong unto others and therefore unto yourself.</p>
			<p>And for that wrong committed must you knock and wait a while unheeded at the gate of the blessed.</p>
			<p>Like the ocean is your god-self;</p>
			<p>It remains for ever undefiled.</p>
			<p>And like the ether it lifts but the winged.</p>
			<p>Even like the sun is your god-self;</p>
			<p>It knows not the ways of the mole nor seeks it the holes of the serpent. <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00045" title="46"/><a id="link46"/>But your god-self dwells not alone in your being.</p>
			<p>Much in you is still man, and much in you is not yet man,</p>
			<p>But a shapeless pigmy that walks asleep in the mist searching for its own awakening.</p>
			<p>And of the man in you would I now speak.</p>
			<p>For it is he and not your god-self nor the pigmy in the mist, that knows crime and the punishment of crime.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Oftentimes have I heard you speak of one who commits a wrong as though he were not one of you, but a stranger unto you and an intruder upon your world.</p>
			<p>But I say that even as the holy and the righteous cannot rise beyond the highest which is in each one of you,</p>
			<p>So the wicked and the weak cannot fall lower than the lowest which is in you also.</p>
			<p>And as a single leaf turns not yellow but with the silent knowledge of the whole tree, <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00046" title="47"/><a id="link47"/>So the wrong-doer cannot do wrong without the hidden will of you all.</p>
			<p>Like a procession you walk together towards your god-self.</p>
			<p>You are the way and the wayfarers.</p>
			<p>And when one of you falls down he falls for those behind him, a caution against the stumbling stone.</p>
			<p>Ay, and he falls for those ahead of him, who though faster and surer of foot, yet removed not the stumbling stone.</p>
			<p>And this also, though the word lie heavy upon your hearts:</p>
			<p>The murdered is not unaccountable for his own murder,</p>
			<p>And the robbed is not blameless in being robbed.</p>
			<p>The righteous is not innocent of the deeds of the wicked,</p>
			<p>And the white-handed is not clean in the doings of the felon.</p>
			<p>Yea, the guilty is oftentimes the victim of the injured,</p>
			<p>And still more often the condemned is <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00047" title="48"/><a id="link48"/>the burden bearer for the guiltless and unblamed.</p>
			<p>You cannot separate the just from the unjust and the good from the wicked;</p>
			<p>For they stand together before the face of the sun even as the black thread and the white are woven together.</p>
			<p>And when the black thread breaks, the weaver shall look into the whole cloth, and he shall examine the loom also.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>If any of you would bring to judgment the unfaithful wife,</p>
			<p>Let him also weigh the heart of her husband in scales, and measure his soul with measurements.</p>
			<p>And let him who would lash the offender look unto the spirit of the offended.</p>
			<p>And if any of you would punish in the name of righteousness and lay the ax unto the evil tree, let him see to its roots;</p>
			<p>And verily he will find the roots of the good and the bad, the fruitful and the <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00048" title="49"/><a id="link49"/>fruitless, all entwined together in the silent heart of the earth.</p>
			<p>And you judges who would be just,</p>
			<p>What judgment pronounce you upon him who though honest in the flesh yet is a thief in spirit?</p>
			<p>What penalty lay you upon him who slays in the flesh yet is himself slain in the spirit?</p>
			<p>And how prosecute you him who in action is a deceiver and an oppressor,</p>
			<p>Yet who also is aggrieved and outraged?</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>And how shall you punish those whose remorse is already greater than their misdeeds?</p>
			<p>Is not remorse the justice which is administered by that very law which you would fain serve?</p>
			<p>Yet you cannot lay remorse upon the innocent nor lift it from the heart of the guilty.</p>
			<p>Unbidden shall it call in the night, that men may wake and gaze upon themselves. <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00049" title="50"/><a id="link50"/>And you who would understand justice, how shall you unless you look upon all deeds in the fullness of light?</p>
			<p>Only then shall you know that the erect and the fallen are but one man standing in twilight between the night of his pigmy-self and the day of his god-self, And that the corner-stone of the temple is not higher than the lowest stone in its foundation.</p>
			<hr/>
			<hr/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
