<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 21</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-21" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>And then a scholar said, Speak of <b class="c7">Talking</b>.</p>
			<p>And he answered, saying:</p>
			<p>You talk when you cease to be at peace with your thoughts;</p>
			<p>And when you can no longer dwell in the solitude of your heart you live in your lips, and sound is a diversion and a pastime.</p>
			<p>And in much of your talking, thinking is half murdered.</p>
			<p>For thought is a bird of space, that in a cage of words may indeed unfold its wings but cannot fly.</p>
			<p>There are those among you who seek the talkative through fear of being alone.</p>
			<p>The silence of aloneness reveals to their eyes their naked selves and they would escape.</p>
			<p>And there are those who talk, and <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00068" title="69"/><a id="link69"/>without knowledge or forethought reveal a truth which they themselves do not understand.</p>
			<p>And there are those who have the truth within them, but they tell it not in words.</p>
			<p>In the bosom of such as these the spirit dwells in rhythmic silence.</p>

			<hr/>

			<p>When you meet your friend on the roadside or in the market place, let the spirit in you move your lips and direct your tongue.</p>
			<p>Let the voice within your voice speak to the ear of his ear;</p>
			<p>For his soul will keep the truth of your heart as the taste of the wine is remembered</p>
			<p>When the colour is forgotten and the vessel is no more.</p>

			<hr/>
			<hr/>
			 
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
