<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 9</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-9" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>Then a woman said, Speak to us of <b class="c7">Joy and Sorrow</b>.</p>
			<p>And he answered:</p>
			<p>Your joy is your sorrow unmasked.</p>
			<p>And the selfsame well from which your laughter rises was oftentimes filled with your tears.</p>
			<p>And how else can it be?</p>
			<p>The deeper that sorrow carves into your being, the more joy you can contain.</p>
			<p>Is not the cup that holds your wine the very cup that was burned in the potter’s oven?</p>
			<p>And is not the lute that soothes your spirit, the very wood that was hollowed with knives?</p>
			<p>When you are joyous, look deep into your heart and you shall find it is only that which has given you sorrow that is giving you joy.</p>
			<p>When you are sorrowful look again in <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00035" title="36"/><a id="link36"/>your heart, and you shall see that in truth you are weeping for that which has been your delight.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Some of you say, “Joy is greater than sorrow,” and others say, “Nay, sorrow is the greater.”</p>
			<p>But I say unto you, they are inseparable.</p>
			<p>Together they come, and when one sits alone with you at your board, remember that the other is asleep upon your bed.</p>
			<p>Verily you are suspended like scales between your sorrow and your joy.</p>
			<p>Only when you are empty are you at standstill and balanced.</p>
			<p>When the treasure-keeper lifts you to weigh his gold and his silver, needs must your joy or your sorrow rise or fall.</p>
			<hr/>
			<hr/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
