<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 20</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-20" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>And a youth said, Speak to us of <b class="c7">Friendship</b>.</p>
			<p>And he answered, saying:</p>
			<p>Your friend is your needs answered.</p>
			<p>He is your field which you sow with love and reap with thanksgiving.</p>
			<p>And he is your board and your fireside.</p>
			<p>For you come to him with your hunger, and you seek him for peace.</p>
			<p>When your friend speaks his mind you fear not the “nay” in your own mind, nor do you withhold the “ay.”</p>
			<p>And when he is silent your heart ceases not to listen to his heart;</p>
			<p>For without words, in friendship, all thoughts, all desires, all expectations are born and shared, with joy that is unacclaimed.</p>
			<p>When you part from your friend, you grieve not;</p>
			<p>For that which you love most in him may be clearer in his absence, as the mountain to the climber is clearer from the plain. <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00066" title="67"/><a id="link67"/>And let there be no purpose in friendship save the deepening of the spirit.</p>
			<p>For love that seeks aught but the disclosure of its own mystery is not love but a net cast forth: and only the unprofitable is caught.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>And let your best be for your friend.</p>
			<p>If he must know the ebb of your tide, let him know its flood also.</p>
			<p>For what is your friend that you should seek him with hours to kill?</p>
			<p>Seek him always with hours to live.</p>
			<p>For it is his to fill your need, but not your emptiness.</p>
			<p>And in the sweetness of friendship let there be laughter, and sharing of pleasures.</p>
			<p>For in the dew of little things the heart finds its morning and is refreshed.</p>
			<hr/>
			<hr/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
