<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 15</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-15" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>And an orator said, Speak to us of <b class="c7">Freedom</b>.</p>
			<p>And he answered:</p>
			<p>At the city gate and by your fireside I have seen you prostrate yourself and worship your own freedom,</p>
			<p>Even as slaves humble themselves before a tyrant and praise him though he slays them.</p>
			<p>Ay, in the grove of the temple and in the shadow of the citadel I have seen the freest among you wear their freedom as a yoke and a handcuff.</p>
			<p>And my heart bled within me; for you can only be free when even the desire of seeking freedom becomes a harness to you, and when you cease to speak of freedom as a goal and a fulfilment.</p>
			<p>You shall be free indeed when your days are not without a care nor your <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00054" title="55"/><a id="link55"/>nights without a want and a grief,</p>
			<p>But rather when these things girdle your life and yet you rise above them naked and unbound.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>And how shall you rise beyond your days and nights unless you break the chains which you at the dawn of your understanding have fastened around your noon hour?</p>
			<p>In truth that which you call freedom is the strongest of these chains, though its links glitter in the sun and dazzle your eyes.</p>
			<p>And what is it but fragments of your own self you would discard that you may become free?</p>
			<p>If it is an unjust law you would abolish, that law was written with your own hand upon your own forehead.</p>
			<p>You cannot erase it by burning your law books nor by washing the foreheads of your judges, though you pour the sea upon them.</p>
			<p>And if it is a despot you would <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00055" title="56"/><a id="link56"/>dethrone, see first that his throne erected within you is destroyed.</p>
			<p>For how can a tyrant rule the free and the proud, but for a tyranny in their own freedom and a shame in their own pride?</p>
			<p>And if it is a care you would cast off, that cart has been chosen by you rather than imposed upon you.</p>
			<p>And if it is a fear you would dispel, the seat of that fear is in your heart and not in the hand of the feared.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Verily all things move within your being in constant half embrace, the desired and the dreaded, the repugnant and the cherished, the pursued and that which you would escape.</p>
			<p>These things move within you as lights and shadows in pairs that cling.</p>
			<p>And when the shadow fades and is no more, the light that lingers becomes a shadow to another light.</p>
			<p>And thus your freedom when it loses its fetters becomes itself the fetter of a greater freedom.</p>
			<hr/>
			<hr/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
