<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 18</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-18" epub:type="chapter">
			<p>And a man said, Speak to us of <b class="c7">Self-Knowledge</b>.</p>
			<p>And he answered, saying:</p>
			<p>Your hearts know in silence the secrets of the days and the nights.</p>
			<p>But your ears thirst for the sound of your heart’s knowledge.</p>
			<p>You would know in words that which you have always known in thought.</p>
			<p>You would touch with your fingers the naked body of your dreams.</p>
			<p>And it is well you should.</p>
			<p>The hidden well-spring of your soul must needs rise and run murmuring to the sea;</p>
			<p>And the treasure of your infinite depths would be revealed to your eyes.</p>
			<p>But let there be no scales to weigh your unknown treasure;</p>
			<p>And seek not the depths of your <a class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00062" title="63"/><a id="link63"/>knowledge with staff or sounding line.</p>
			<p>For self is a sea boundless and measureless.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Say not, “I have found the truth,” but rather, “I have found a truth.”</p>
			<p>Say not, “I have found the path of the soul.” Say rather, “I have met the soul walking upon my path.”</p>
			<p>For the soul walks upon all paths.</p>
			<p>The soul walks not upon a line, neither does it grow like a reed.</p>
			<p>The soul unfolds itself, like a lotus of countless petals.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
