<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Buying and Selling</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="on-buying-and-selling" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<p>And a merchant said, Speak to us of Buying and Selling.</p>
			<p>And he answered and said:</p>
			<p>To you the earth yields her fruit, and you shall not want if you but know how to fill your hands.</p>
			<p>It is in exchanging the gifts of the earth that you shall find abundance and be satisfied.</p>
			<p>Yet unless the exchange be in love and kindly justice, it will but lead some to greed and others to hunger.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>When in the market place you toilers of the sea and fields and vineyards meet the weavers and the potters and the gatherers of spices⁠—</p>
			<p>Invoke then the master spirit of the earth, to come into your midst and sanctify the scales and the reckoning that weighs value against value.</p>
			<p>And suffer not the barren-handed to take part in your transactions, who would sell their words for your labour.</p>
			<p>To such men you should say,</p>
			<p>“Come with us to the field, or go with our brothers to the sea and cast your net;</p>
			<p>For the land and the sea shall be bountiful to you even as to us.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>And if there come the singers and the dancers and the flute players⁠—buy of their gifts also.</p>
			<p>For they too are gatherers of fruit and frankincense, and that which they bring, though fashioned of dreams, is raiment and food for your soul.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>And before you leave the market place, see that no one has gone his way with empty hands.</p>
			<p>For the master spirit of the earth shall not sleep peacefully upon the wind till the needs of the least of you are satisfied.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
