<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Death</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="on-death" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<p>Then Almitra spoke, saying, We would ask now of Death.</p>
			<p>And he said:</p>
			<p>You would know the secret of death.</p>
			<p>But how shall you find it unless you seek it in the heart of life?</p>
			<p>The owl whose night-bound eyes are blind unto the day cannot unveil the mystery of light.</p>
			<p>If you would indeed behold the spirit of death, open your heart wide unto the body of life.</p>
			<p>For life and death are one, even as the river and the sea are one.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>In the depth of your hopes and desires lies your silent knowledge of the beyond;</p>
			<p>And like seeds dreaming beneath the snow your heart dreams of spring.</p>
			<p>Trust the dreams, for in them is hidden the gate to eternity.</p>
			<p>Your fear of death is but the trembling of the shepherd when he stands before the king whose hand is to be laid upon him in honour.</p>
			<p>Is the shepherd not joyful beneath his trembling, that he shall wear the mark of the king?</p>
			<p>Yet is he not more mindful of his trembling?</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>For what is it to die but to stand naked in the wind and to melt into the sun?</p>
			<p>And what is it to cease breathing, but to free the breath from its restless tides, that it may rise and expand and seek God unencumbered?</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Only when you drink from the river of silence shall you indeed sing.</p>
			<p>And when you have reached the mountain top, then you shall begin to climb.</p>
			<p>And when the earth shall claim your limbs, then shall you truly dance.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
