<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Good and Evil</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="on-good-and-evil" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<p>And one of the elders of the city said, Speak to us of Good and Evil.</p>
			<p>And he answered:</p>
			<p>Of the good in you I can speak, but not of the evil.</p>
			<p>For what is evil but good tortured by its own hunger and thirst?</p>
			<p>Verily when good is hungry it seeks food even in dark caves, and when it thirsts it drinks even of dead waters.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>You are good when you are one with yourself.</p>
			<p>Yet when you are not one with yourself you are not evil.</p>
			<p>For a divided house is not a den of thieves; it is only a divided house.</p>
			<p>And a ship without rudder may wander aimlessly among perilous isles yet sink not to the bottom.</p>
			<p>You are good when you strive to give of yourself.</p>
			<p>Yet you are not evil when you seek gain for yourself.</p>
			<p>For when you strive for gain you are but a root that clings to the earth and sucks at her breast.</p>
			<p>Surely the fruit cannot say to the root, “Be like me, ripe and full and ever giving of your abundance.”</p>
			<p>For to the fruit giving is a need, as receiving is a need to the root.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>You are good when you are fully awake in your speech,</p>
			<p>Yet you are not evil when you sleep while your tongue staggers without purpose.</p>
			<p>And even stumbling speech may strengthen a weak tongue.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>You are good when you walk to your goal firmly and with bold steps.</p>
			<p>Yet you are not evil when you go thither limping.</p>
			<p>Even those who limp go not backward.</p>
			<p>But you who are strong and swift, see that you do not limp before the lame, deeming it kindness.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>You are good in countless ways, and you are not evil when you are not good,</p>
			<p>You are only loitering and sluggard.</p>
			<p>Pity that the stags cannot teach swiftness to the turtles.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>In your longing for your giant self lies your goodness: and that longing is in all of you.</p>
			<p>But in some of you that longing is a torrent rushing with might to the sea, carrying the secrets of the hillsides and the songs of the forest.</p>
			<p>And in others it is a flat stream that loses itself in angles and bends and lingers before it reaches the shore.</p>
			<p>But let not him who longs much say to him who longs little, “Wherefore are you slow and halting?”</p>
			<p>For the truly good ask not the naked, “Where is your garment?” nor the houseless, “What has befallen your house?”</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
