<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Giving</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="on-giving" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<p>Then said a rich man, Speak to us of Giving.</p>
			<p>And he answered:</p>
			<p>You give but little when you give of your possessions.</p>
			<p>It is when you give of yourself that you truly give.</p>
			<p>For what are your possessions but things you keep and guard for fear you may need them tomorrow?</p>
			<p>And tomorrow, what shall tomorrow bring to the overprudent dog burying bones in the trackless sand as he follows the pilgrims to the holy city?</p>
			<p>And what is fear of need but need itself?</p>
			<p>Is not dread of thirst when your well is full, the thirst that is unquenchable?</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>There are those who give little of the much which they have⁠—and they give it for recognition and their hidden desire makes their gifts unwholesome.</p>
			<p>And there are those who have little and give it all.</p>
			<p>These are the believers in life and the bounty of life, and their coffer is never empty.</p>
			<p>There are those who give with joy, and that joy is their reward.</p>
			<p>And there are those who give with pain, and that pain is their baptism.</p>
			<p>And there are those who give and know not pain in giving, nor do they seek joy, nor give with mindfulness of virtue;</p>
			<p>They give as in yonder valley the myrtle breathes its fragrance into space.</p>
			<p>Through the hands of such as these God speaks, and from behind their eyes He smiles upon the earth.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>It is well to give when asked, but it is better to give unasked, through understanding;</p>
			<p>And to the openhanded the search for one who shall receive is joy greater than giving.</p>
			<p>And is there aught you would withhold?</p>
			<p>All you have shall some day be given;</p>
			<p>Therefore give now, that the season of giving may be yours and not your inheritors’.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>You often say, “I would give, but only to the deserving.”</p>
			<p>The trees in your orchard say not so, nor the flocks in your pasture.</p>
			<p>They give that they may live, for to withhold is to perish.</p>
			<p>Surely he who is worthy to receive his days and his nights, is worthy of all else from you.</p>
			<p>And he who has deserved to drink from the ocean of life deserves to fill his cup from your little stream.</p>
			<p>And what desert greater shall there be, than that which lies in the courage and the confidence, nay the charity, of receiving?</p>
			<p>And who are you that men should rend their bosom and unveil their pride, that you may see their worth naked and their pride unabashed?</p>
			<p>See first that you yourself deserve to be a giver, and an instrument of giving.</p>
			<p>For in truth it is life that gives unto life⁠—while you, who deem yourself a giver, are but a witness.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>And you receivers⁠—and you are all receivers⁠—assume no weight of gratitude, lest you lay a yoke upon yourself and upon him who gives.</p>
			<p>Rather rise together with the giver on his gifts as on wings;</p>
			<p>For to be overmindful of your debt, is to doubt his generosity who has the free-hearted earth for mother, and God for father.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
