<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Love</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="on-love" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<p>Then said Almitra, Speak to us of Love</p>
			<p>And he raised his head and looked upon the people, and there fell a stillness upon them. And with a great voice he said:</p>
			<p>When love beckons to you, follow him,</p>
			<p>Though his ways are hard and steep.</p>
			<p>And when his wings enfold you yield to him,</p>
			<p>Though the sword hidden among his pinions may wound you.</p>
			<p>And when he speaks to you believe in him,</p>
			<p>Though his voice may shatter your dreams as the north wind lays waste the garden.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>For even as love crowns you so shall he crucify you. Even as he is for your growth so is he for your pruning.</p>
			<p>Even as he ascends to your height and caresses your tenderest branches that quiver in the sun,</p>
			<p>So shall he descend to your roots and shake them in their clinging to the earth.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>Like sheaves of corn he gathers you unto himself.</p>
			<p>He threshes you to make you naked.</p>
			<p>He sifts you to free you from your husks.</p>
			<p>He grinds you to whiteness.</p>
			<p>He kneads you until you are pliant;</p>
			<p>And then he assigns you to his sacred fire, that you may become sacred bread for God’s sacred feast.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>All these things shall love do unto you that you may know the secrets of your heart, and in that knowledge become a fragment of Life’s heart.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>But if in your fear you would seek only love’s peace and love’s pleasure,</p>
			<p>Then it is better for you that you cover your nakedness and pass out of love’s threshing-floor,</p>
			<p>Into the seasonless world where you shall laugh, but not all of your laughter, and weep, but not all of your tears.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>Love gives naught but itself and takes naught but from itself.</p>
			<p>Love possesses not nor would it be possessed;</p>
			<p>For love is sufficient unto love.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>When you love you should not say, “God is in my heart,” but rather, “I am in the heart of God.”</p>
			<p>And think not you can direct the course of love, for love, if it finds you worthy, directs your course.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>Love has no other desire but to fulfil itself.</p>
			<p>But if you love and must needs have desires, let these be your desires:</p>
			<p>To melt and be like a running brook that sings its melody to the night. To know the pain of too much tenderness.</p>
			<p>To be wounded by your own understanding of love;</p>
			<p>And to bleed willingly and joyfully.</p>
			<p>To wake at dawn with a winged heart and give thanks for another day of loving;</p>
			<p>To rest at the noon hour and meditate love’s ecstacy;</p>
			<p>To return home at eventide with gratitude;</p>
			<p>And then to sleep with a prayer for the beloved in your heart and a song of praise upon your lips.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
