<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Laws</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="on-laws" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<p>Then a lawyer said, But what of our Laws, master?</p>
			<p>And he answered:</p>
			<p>You delight in laying down laws,</p>
			<p>Yet you delight more in breaking them.</p>
			<p>Like children playing by the ocean who build sand-towers with constancy and then destroy them with laughter.</p>
			<p>But while you build your sand-towers the ocean brings more sand to the shore,</p>
			<p>And when you destroy them the ocean laughs with you.</p>
			<p>Verily the ocean laughs always with the innocent.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>But what of those to whom life is not an ocean, and man-made laws are not sand-towers,</p>
			<p>But to whom life is a rock, and the law a chisel with which they would carve it in their own likeness?</p>
			<p>What of the cripple who hates dancers?</p>
			<p>What of the ox who loves his yoke and deems the elk and deer of the forest stray and vagrant things?</p>
			<p>What of the old serpent who cannot shed his skin, and calls all others naked and shameless?</p>
			<p>And of him who comes early to the wedding-feast, and when overfed and tired goes his way saying that all feasts are violation and all feasters lawbreakers?</p>
			<br/>
			<p>What shall I say of these save that they too stand in the sunlight, but with their backs to the sun?</p>
			<p>They see only their shadows, and their shadows are their laws.</p>
			<p>And what is the sun to them but a caster of shadows?</p>
			<p>And what is it to acknowledge the laws but to stoop down and trace their shadows upon the earth?</p>
			<p>But you who walk facing the sun, what images drawn on the earth can hold you?</p>
			<p>You who travel with the wind, what weathervane shall direct your course?</p>
			<p>What man’s law shall bind you if you break your yoke but upon no man’s prison door?</p>
			<p>What laws shall you fear if you dance but stumble against no man’s iron chains?</p>
			<p>And who is he that shall bring you to judgment if you tear off your garment yet leave it in no man’s path?</p>
			<br/>
			<p>People of Orphalese, you can muffle the drum, and you can loosen the strings of the lyre, but who shall command the skylark not to sing?</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
