<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Marriage</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<article id="on-marriage" epub:type="se:short-story">
			<p>Then Almitra spoke again and said, And what of Marriage master?</p>
			<p>And he answered saying:</p>
			<p>You were born together, and together you shall be forevermore.</p>
			<p>You shall be together when the white wings of death scatter your days.</p>
			<p>Aye, you shall be together even in the silent memory of God.</p>
			<p>But let there be spaces in your togetherness,</p>
			<p>And let the winds of the heavens dance between you.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Love one another, but make not a bond of love:</p>
			<p>Let it rather be a moving sea between the shores of your souls.</p>
			<p>Fill each other’s cup but drink not from one cup.</p>
			<p>Give one another of your bread but eat not from the same loaf.</p>
			<p>Sing and dance together and be joyous, but let each one of you be alone,</p>
			<p>Even as the strings of a lute are alone though they quiver with the same music.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Give your hearts, but not into each other’s keeping.</p>
			<p>For only the hand of Life can contain your hearts.</p>
			<p>And stand together yet not too near together:</p>
			<p>For the pillars of the temple stand apart,</p>
			<p>And the oak tree and the cypress grow not in each other’s shadow.</p>
		</article>
	</body>
</html>
