<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Prayer</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="on-prayer" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<p>Then a priestess said, Speak to us of Prayer.</p>
			<p>And he answered, saying:</p>
			<p>You pray in your distress and in your need; would that you might pray also in the fullness of your joy and in your days of abundance.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>For what is prayer but the expansion of yourself into the living ether?</p>
			<p>And if it is for your comfort to pour your darkness into space, it is also for your delight to pour forth the dawning of your heart.</p>
			<p>And if you cannot but weep when your soul summons you to prayer, she should spur you again and yet again, though weeping, until you shall come laughing.</p>
			<p>When you pray you rise to meet in the air those who are praying at that very hour, and whom save in prayer you may not meet.</p>
			<p>Therefore let your visit to that temple invisible be for naught but ecstasy and sweet communion.</p>
			<p>For if you should enter the temple for no other purpose than asking you shall not receive:</p>
			<p>And if you should enter into it to humble yourself you shall not be lifted:</p>
			<p>Or even if you should enter into it to beg for the good of others you shall not be heard.</p>
			<p>It is enough that you enter the temple invisible.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>I cannot teach you how to pray in words.</p>
			<p>God listens not to your words save when He Himself utters them through your lips.</p>
			<p>And I cannot teach you the prayer of the seas and the forests and the mountains.</p>
			<p>But you who are born of the mountains and the forests and the seas can find their prayer in your heart,</p>
			<p>And if you but listen in the stillness of the night you shall hear them saying in silence,</p>
			<p>“Our God, who art our winged self, it is thy will in us that willeth.</p>
			<p>It is thy desire in us that desireth.</p>
			<p>It is thy urge in us that would turn our nights, which are thine, into days which are thine also.</p>
			<p>We cannot ask thee for aught, for thou knowest our needs before they are born in us:</p>
			<p>Thou art our need; and in giving us more of thyself thou givest us all.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
