<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Pleasure</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="on-pleasure" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<p>Then a hermit, who visited the city once a year, came forth and said, Speak to us of Pleasure.</p>
			<p>And he answered, saying:</p>
			<p>Pleasure is a freedom-song,</p>
			<p>But it is not freedom.</p>
			<p>It is the blossoming of your desires,</p>
			<p>But it is not their fruit.</p>
			<p>It is a depth calling unto a height,</p>
			<p>But it is not the deep nor the high.</p>
			<p>It is the caged taking wing,</p>
			<p>But it is not space encompassed.</p>
			<p>Ay, in very truth, pleasure is a freedom-song.</p>
			<p>And I fain would have you sing it with fullness of heart; yet I would not have you lose your hearts in the singing.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Some of your youth seek pleasure as if it were all, and they are judged and rebuked.</p>
			<p>I would not judge nor rebuke them. I would have them seek.</p>
			<p>For they shall find pleasure, but not her alone;</p>
			<p>Seven are her sisters, and the least of them is more beautiful than pleasure.</p>
			<p>Have you not heard of the man who was digging in the earth for roots and found a treasure?</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>And some of your elders remember pleasures with regret like wrongs committed in drunkenness.</p>
			<p>But regret is the beclouding of the mind and not its chastisement.</p>
			<p>They should remember their pleasures with gratitude, as they would the harvest of a summer.</p>
			<p>Yet if it comforts them to regret, let them be comforted.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>And there are among you those who are neither young to seek nor old to remember;</p>
			<p>And in their fear of seeking and remembering they shun all pleasures, lest they neglect the spirit or offend against it.</p>
			<p>But even in their foregoing is their pleasure.</p>
			<p>And thus they too find a treasure though they dig for roots with quivering hands.</p>
			<p>But tell me, who is he that can offend the spirit?</p>
			<p>Shall the nightingale offend the stillness of the night, or the firefly the stars?</p>
			<p>And shall your flame or your smoke burden the wind?</p>
			<p>Think you the spirit is a still pool which you can trouble with a staff?</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Oftentimes in denying yourself pleasure you do but store the desire in the recesses of your being.</p>
			<p>Who knows but that which seems omitted today, waits for tomorrow?</p>
			<p>Even your body knows its heritage and its rightful need and will not be deceived.</p>
			<p>And your body is the harp of your soul,</p>
			<p>And it is yours to bring forth sweet music from it or confused sounds.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>And now you ask in your heart, “How shall we distinguish that which is good in pleasure from that which is not good?”</p>
			<p>Go to your fields and your gardens, and you shall learn that it is the pleasure of the bee to gather honey of the flower,</p>
			<p>But it is also the pleasure of the flower to yield its honey to the bee.</p>
			<p>For to the bee a flower is a fountain of life,</p>
			<p>And to the flower a bee is a messenger of love,</p>
			<p>And to both, bee and flower, the giving and the receiving of pleasure is a need and an ecstasy.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>People of Orphalese, be in your pleasures like the flowers and the bees.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
