<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Reason and Passion</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="on-reason-and-passion" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<p>And the priestess spoke again and said: Speak to us of Reason and Passion.</p>
			<p>And he answered, saying:</p>
			<p>Your soul is oftentimes a battlefield, upon which your reason and your judgment wage war against your passion and your appetite.</p>
			<p>Would that I could be the peacemaker in your soul, that I might turn the discord and the rivalry of your elements into oneness and melody.</p>
			<p>But how shall I, unless you yourselves be also the peacemakers, nay, the lovers of all your elements?</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Your reason and your passion are the rudder and the sails of your seafaring soul.</p>
			<p>If either your sails or your rudder be broken, you can but toss and drift, or else be held at a standstill in mid-seas.</p>
			<p>For reason, ruling alone, is a force confining; and passion, unattended, is a flame that burns to its own destruction.</p>
			<p>Therefore let your soul exalt your reason to the height of passion, that it may sing;</p>
			<p>And let it direct your passion with reason, that your passion may live through its own daily resurrection, and like the phoenix rise above its own ashes.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>I would have you consider your judgment and your appetite even as you would two loved guests in your house.</p>
			<p>Surely you would not honour one guest above the other; for he who is more mindful of one loses the love and the faith of both</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Among the hills, when you sit in the cool shade of the white poplars, sharing the peace and serenity of distant fields and meadows⁠—then let your heart say in silence, “God rests in reason.”</p>
			<p>And when the storm comes, and the mighty wind shakes the forest, and thunder and lightning proclaim the majesty of the sky⁠—then let your heart say in awe, “God moves in passion.”</p>
			<p>And since you are a breath in God’s sphere, and a leaf in God’s forest, you too should rest in reason and move in passion.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
