<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>On Religion</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="on-religion" epub:type="volume se:short-story">
			<p>And an old priest said, Speak to us of Religion.</p>
			<p>And he said:</p>
			<p>Have I spoken this day of aught else?</p>
			<p>Is not religion all deeds and all reflection,</p>
			<p>And that which is neither deed nor reflection, but a wonder and a surprise ever springing in the soul, even while the hands hew the stone or tend the loom?</p>
			<p>Who can separate his faith from his actions, or his belief from his occupations?</p>
			<p>Who can spread his hours before him, saying, “This for God and this for myself; This for my soul, and this other for my body?”</p>
			<p>All your hours are wings that beat through space from self to self.</p>
			<p>He who wears his morality but as his best garment were better naked.</p>
			<p>The wind and the sun will tear no holes in his skin.</p>
			<p>And he who defines his conduct by ethics imprisons his songbird in a cage.</p>
			<p>The freest song comes not through bars and wires.</p>
			<p>And he to whom worshipping is a window, to open but also to shut, has not yet visited the house of his soul whose windows are from dawn to dawn.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>Your daily life is your temple and your religion.</p>
			<p>Whenever you enter into it take with you your all.</p>
			<p>Take the plough and the forge and the mallet and the lute,</p>
			<p>The things you have fashioned in necessity or for delight.</p>
			<p>For in revery you cannot rise above your achievements nor fall lower than your failures.</p>
			<p>And take with you all men:</p>
			<p>For in adoration you cannot fly higher than their hopes nor humble yourself lower than their despair.</p>
			<br/>
			<p>And if you would know God be not therefore a solver of riddles.</p>
			<p>Rather look about you and you shall see Him playing with your children.</p>
			<p>And look into space; you shall see Him walking in the cloud, outstretching His arms in the lightning and descending in rain.</p>
			<p>You shall see Him smiling in flowers, then rising and waving His hands in trees.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
